In this segment we can dig in a little
deeper into the independence assumptions
of PCFGs and what that means in practice.
So the symbols of a PCFG define
the independence assumptions.
So if we have a pair of rules like this,
S goes to nonphrase verb phrase Noun
phrase goes to determine a noun.
When you're expanding here,
the only thing you know is
that you've got a noun phrase and you've
got probabilities for how it expands.
So the right way to think of categories in
a PCFG is that they're kind of
choke points for information flow.
So we have the outside tree up here and
When we're expanding this noun phrase,
we know nothing about the outside tree.
All we know is that we're
expanding a noun phrase.
Or, looked at from reverse, when we're
working out what paths to choose up
here We don't know anything
about what went on down here.
All we know is that this is a noun
phrase over some number of words,
and then we need to work
out what happens above it.
So precisely this is a point that
which is in independent assumption.
Is assumption is you can work out
the probability things inside here
knowing only that this is a noun
phrase and you can work out
the probabilities of things up here
knowing only that this is a noun phrase.
That's a very strong
independence assumption.
Then we can see clearly that it's too
strong by looking at various cases.
And here's one example.
So if we just say, what are the chances
of expanding a noun phrase overall?
Well, the chance of a noun phrase
expanding as a noun phrase,
prepositional phrase in the pintree bank.
It's about 11% and the chances
of it expanding as a pronoun, so
this is something like The noun
phrase goes to the pronoun she.
That's 6%.
And these are just the overall statistics.
And let's suppose we now ask
about particular categories.
Suppose we know that this is
a noun phrase under an S and
that's The subject noun
phrase of a sentence.
Then we find out that the statistics
are enormously different.
So the chance of this expanding
as an NP PP go down a little,
but what's really dramatic
is that the chances of it
becoming a pronoun go up enormously
about three and a half times.
In contrast if we know it's
a noun phrase under a verb
phrase the chance of it
being a pronoun drops.
But the chances of it being an NP PP
go up a lot, they more than double.
Now if you have a bit more
background in linguistics,
you'd say at this moment,
well of course, that's exactly.
Typically what you'd expect based on
knowledge about information structure of
language so that subjects are normally
used for topics established,
discourse reference.
And therefore, it's highly appropriate for
that to be a pronoun
whereas inside the verb phrase what
you're normally doing is introducing
new information which, therefore needs
to be explained a little bit more.
And therefore, it'd be quite common for
that to be a noun phrase with
a prepositional phrase hanging
off it because that's one of the ways in
which you can express more information.
So you can say something like the man
by the railway road tracks or
something like that, where you're
giving more descriptive content.
But just thinking about it at
the moment for our PCFG well,
what we're finding is that if we just
say we're expanding a noun phrase,
we're losing this additional
information which would let us
give much better probabilities
about how to expand that.
Another way that you can see that your
independence assumptions Are too strong.
It's when you run a basic PCFG and
you find that just does the wrong thing.
So it's choosing rules that look
wrong that shouldn't have used but
somehow it's choosing to use them.
Here's an example of this, so for a noun
phrase like Big Board composite trading,
the noun phrase structure that you're
meant to choose in the Penn Treebank
is just this flat structure.
In general the Penn Treebank structure
uses a lot of Flat structures for
compound nouns like this.
But if you train up a simple P-C-F-G and
run it on this sentence,
the structure that you
actually get is this on here.
Where it's put in an extra noun
phase node around the board.
Well, it just shouldn't have done that and
your first reaction is well why did it
do that because all of the compound
nouns in the Penn tree bank have
this kind of flat structure.
Why didn't it learn that?
But the reason that it was able to do this
is that there's a different structure in
the Penn Tree bank way you do get
these NP nodes at the start of an NP.
And when that happens with possessives,
so here we have this possessive NP,
and then you do have a noun phrase Up here
going to noun phrase, adjective, noun.
And so what you like to say is,
well this here, it's okay to use it for
possessives, but
this noun phrase isn't a possessor.
But then that's precisely
where the problem is.
Plus both of these nodes I
just marked noun phrase.
And so,
we're not recording the information
that this one here is
a possessive noun phrase.
So somehow we want to get more
information this category to say this is
a possessive noun phrase.
So the parser would know
that you can't use that
expansion rule when you have a
non-possessive noun phrase like big board.
So that's what we want to do.
So we can relax the independence
assumptions of a PCFG
by encoding more information
into the non-terminals symbol.
It's a process that's often
referred to as state splitting.
So one of the first proposals for
state splitting and
showing how successful
it was was Mark Johnson.
Noticed that you could improve
a probabilistic context free grammar
quite a lot by encoding as
part of each non-terminal also
what was the parent category.
And remember you also saw this idea in
the conditioning of Charniak parser
in a preceding segman.
So Johnson's observation was that if
you did nothing more, but changed
all of the non-terminals to also record
in them what the parent non-terminal is.
So you then effectively have
a number of non-terminals squared,
space of non-terminals.
That that change alone,
if you just train a PCFG in the regular
manner, Makes a big difference.
It pushes up to your passing
numbers by a couple of percent.
So that's a useful idea, but there are
others things that we might want to do,
that have a slightly different character.
So for the example for the previous slide.
If we want to rule out
the big board bad pars,
it seems like what we also want to do
is know about possessive noun phrases.
So possessive noun phrases are these
ones like fidelities with an apostrophe
s at the end.
And they have a very different
nature than regular noun phrases.
But, it wasn't being recorded
in the category symbol, but
just being called noun phrase.
So why don't we do state splitting and
say, no we're going to Without noun
phrases that are possessives and
pull them into NP-POS.
And then that information will also
be captured in the grammar, and
again will have a more accurate PCFG.
Of course there's a danger of doing
this too much, and that is that if
we have too much state-splitting, we
start getting more and more nonterminals.
And our information about the nonterminals
becomes sparser and sparser.
And in particular, in the model we're
going to show in the the next segment:
there was absolutely no smoothing
of the rule rewrite probabilities.
And so,
if you did too much state-splitting,
you'd end up having zero probabilities for
things that you.
You haven't seen before, but
unlike with word probabilities,
where you basically have to smooth them.
You can do a reasonable
amount of state splitting
of categories in this sort of a way
before you have to deal with smoothing.
And so, what we're going to look
at is which ways of splitting
categories are most useful for
capturing probabilistic
dependence that's needed to do
a good job in PCFG parsing.
Okay, I hope that gives you
a more concrete sense about PCFG
independence assumptions and how they can
hurt you, but also how to solve them.